I do want to do a couple of things.
I wanna do a couple of
experiments with you, guys.
Because I wanna make sure that you
guys really feel confident in making
a technical document.
As we kind of just said, it's a lot
of what you're gonna do in DevOps.
It's gonna be the thing that
you start with the most.
So what I'd like to do is I'd actually
kind of like to do an interactive TDD,
where we'll actually create
a technical document.
We'll break it down, and we'll try and
find a solution for it, so let's do that.
So I'm gonna quickly hop
over to Notion here.
Okay, so
I don't necessarily have a problem,
because I want to get
a problem from you guys, okay?
Now it can come from chat, it can
come from here, I don't really care,
but we just need a problem to solve.
And I think we all have problems to solve.
[LAUGH] So I think we could find one,
but we really wanna try a very
simple problem to solve.
This could be logging,
this could be containerization.
It could be deployment,
could be automation.
It could be something you deal with
at your company right now, right?
>> Fragmented documentation,
perpetuating tribal knowledge.
>> Whoo, that's okay.
So you're saying fragmented
documentation with what?
>> Perpetuating tribal knowledge.
>> If I can spell that right.
>> That's right.
[LAUGH]
>> Okay, so I was just given a prompt.
I'm a DevOps engineer.
We have fragmented documentation
with perpetuating tribal knowledge.
Okay, so let's take a look at that.
First, we're gonna say, oops,
what problem are we trying to solve?
So can you give that to me in a sentence
of what the problem is, basically?
>> Engineering teams are frustrated
because they don't know where
to find answers to their problems
with their day to day work.
>> Okay, so engineering teams
are frustrated because they
are unable to find information regarding,
what were you saying?
>> Their day to day work.
>> Okay, their day to day work.
Okay, engineering teams are frustrated
because they are unable to find
information regarding
their day to day work.
This is actually a very common problem.
I deal with it all the time, right?
In this case,
I think it's good to start with,
how do we share information, right?
So how do you share information right now?
If you don't mind me
asking in this scenario.
>> We've got wikis, we've got blogs,
we do email blasts,
we've got communication
tools like Microsoft Teams.
>> So okay, so like a messaging software.
Okay, all right, so
let's break this down a bit.
You said that we've got wikis, blogs,
email blasts and messaging software.
First thing that kind of stands out
to me is what do they do, right?
So in the circumstance of wikis,
what would you say the wiki does?
>> I would say generally,
our wikis contain
our best practices for
using shared solutions.
>> Okay, cool, so basically,
it's focused on cross team
knowledge and
how you guys solve those problems.
Okay, cool, and what about the blog?
>> Blogs are usually used
to communicate releases or
new features being introduced
into shared solutions.
>> Okay, and here's a question,
with regarding to the blog,
who does the blog serve?
>> Generally,
engineering teams, generally,
individuals with a software
engineering role.
>> So this is internal.
>> Yes.
>> Okay, cool, okay, email blasts?
>> These are usually an announcement
slash call to action,
some action is expected of teams or
it's more important that they're
aware of some infrastructure
change that we're rolling out.
>> Okay, oops,
[INAUDIBLE] that will impact, okay.
And then messaging software.
>> These are gonna be
the individual troubleshooting
threads that are very
difficult to parse and
look for patterns across threads.
>> Trust me, [INAUDIBLE]
>> We would definitely want to identify
those patterns, tease them out so that we
can better empower teams to self service.
And if there are common issues,
then we need the insight
to those common issues so
that we can solve them for everyone.
Instead of continuing to just solve
one off issues for this team and
then the same kind of issue for another
team and then a third and a fourth.
>> Gotcha, so would you say that a lot
of what's happening in the messaging
software is kind of like, one-off
solutions that never get documented?
>> Yeah, that's a good summary.
>> Okay, cool, so.
Cool, so looking at this, that's a lot of
different places to get information from,
right?
That would be something that I
kind of immediately see already.
I think what's really interesting is
the next thing to ask ourselves is,
Which of these benefits is the most,
right?
So sure, we have a wiki, we have a blog,
we have email blasts and
messaging software.
Which one are we seeing actually
help the company the most?
Which one are we seeing developers
actually using the most would be my next
question.
>> Heaven knows.
[LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] That's fair, okay, so.
>> I think what we're frankly lacking is
a lot of metrics, like usage metrics.
We don't know, are people consulting
the blog where we also have a lot of
information that overlaps
with wiki content?
Are they just reaching out on
our messaging software and
asking teams directly instead of going and
reading the manual?
>> Yeah, awesome, okay, so basically,
it seems in some ways what we're
kind of already starting to recognize is,
we do share information but
we're not really sure if it's the most
effective way of sharing that information.
Yeah, so yeah, I think that if we
stopped here for a second, right,
this happened actually at
my company which is ironic.
We were in the same problem.
Again, I think this is a fantastic prompt.
Do you know what our first decision was
to do before we even wrote a technical
document?
Create a discourse because why not?
[LAUGH] That'll solve our problem.
And that's what we did.
We initially just didn't think about it.
And we just said, whatever,
we'll put a discourse out there.
Do you know what happened
to the discourse?
Nobody used it, never got a single
article created in it and
it's probably just still sitting there
as an empty container at the moment.
[LAUGH] And the reason why I bring
that up is because of this right here.
Yeah, hands down, right?
If you ask this question and
you have no idea what is even helping you,
how do you know where to put the best
solution for the problem, right?
And like you said that there's no real
tracking around what's being used, right?
You don't know if information is being
shared in multiple places, right?